MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
MEMORYLAYER
Own Your AI Memory. Take It Everywhere.
Product Vision & Technical Build Document
Version 1.0 | 2025
Confidential — Internal Use Only
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 1 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
Table of Contents
1. Executive Summary 3
2. The Problem We Are Solving 4
3. The Solution — What MemoryLayer Does 5
4. The Magic Moment 6
5. Target Market & Users 6
6. Product Architecture 7
7. How Memory Works — Capture, Refine, Retrieve 8
8. Storage Architecture 9
9. Smart Retrieval System 10
10. Platform Integrations 11
11. Privacy & Security 12
12. Tech Stack 13
13. Build Roadmap 14
14. Business Model & Pricing 16
15. Cost Analysis 17
16. Market Analysis & Competition 18
17. Risks & Mitigations 19
18. Summary & Next Steps 20
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 2 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
1. Executive Summary
MemoryLayer is a developer-first AI memory infrastructure platform. It captures, refines, and
synchronizes context across every AI coding tool a developer uses — so they never have to re-
explain their project, preferences, or decisions again.
Today a developer using Cursor, Claude Code, GitHub Copilot, and ChatGPT must re-explain
their entire project context to each tool, every single session. MemoryLayer eliminates this
completely by maintaining a living, intelligent memory layer that travels with the developer
across every tool they use.
Core Promise: Connect MemoryLayer once. Every AI tool you use instantly knows your
project, your stack, your decisions, and your preferences. Forever.
Key Facts at a Glance
Category Detail Category Detail
Product Type Memory Infrastructure Initial Market Developers using 2+
Platform AI tools
Primary Integration MCP Protocol + File Revenue Model Freemium SaaS
Sync
Core Technology Vector DB + AI Target Launch 6 Weeks MVP
Refinement
Biggest Advantage Platform agnostic Long-term Moat Memory data network
memory effect
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 3 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
2. The Problem We Are Solving
The AI developer tools landscape has fragmented dramatically. The average developer now
uses three to five different AI coding tools depending on the task at hand. Cursor for deep code
editing, Claude Code for complex reasoning, GitHub Copilot for inline completions, ChatGPT for
architecture discussions. Each of these tools is isolated. None of them share context.
The Daily Developer Frustration
Every morning a developer opens their AI tool of choice and faces the same problem. They
must explain their project from scratch. What the project is. What stack it uses. What decisions
have been made and why. What the current task is. What coding style they prefer. This
information lives in the developer's head, not in any tool. It gets re-explained hundreds of times
across a career.
Real example: A developer switches from Cursor to Claude Code mid-task. Claude Code
knows nothing about the project. The developer spends 10 minutes copy-pasting context
before getting useful help. This happens every single day.
The Specific Pains
Pain Point Impact
Context re-explanation every 10-20 minutes wasted daily per developer
session
No memory when switching Breaks flow, reduces productivity
AI tools
New team member Days to weeks of knowledge transfer
onboarding
Decisions not preserved Same mistakes made repeatedly
Preferences reset constantly AI gives generic instead of personalized help
Why This Problem Is Getting Worse
AI tool adoption is accelerating. A year ago developers used one or two AI tools. Today they
use four or five. By next year the average will be higher still. Every new AI tool added to a
developer's workflow adds another context gap. The problem compounds with every tool added.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 4 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
3. The Solution — What MemoryLayer Does
MemoryLayer is a universal memory layer that sits between a developer and all their AI tools. It
captures context from every AI interaction, refines it into structured memory using an AI model,
stores it securely, and injects the right context into every new session automatically.
The Three Core Functions
Function What It Does How
CAPTURE Reads every AI conversation and Browser extension DOM
extracts meaningful context reading, MCP hooks, file
watching
REFINE Sends raw context to AI model for Claude Haiku API —
cleaning and structuring deduplicates, categorizes,
scores
INJECT Delivers relevant memories to next AI MCP protocol, file sync, DOM
session automatically injection
What Gets Remembered
Memory Category Examples
Project Identity Name, type, description, current status
Tech Stack Languages, frameworks, libraries, versions
Architecture Decisions Why Supabase over Firebase, why REST over GraphQL
Coding Preferences Functional only, no comments unless complex, TypeScript strict
Folder Structure What lives where and why
Current Tasks What is being built right now, what is next
Team Context Who works on what, coding standards, review process
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 5 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
4. The Magic Moment
Every great product has one moment that makes a new user say wow. For MemoryLayer, this is
it.
Step 1: Developer tells Cursor — 'We decided to use Zustand for state management
instead of Redux because the app is too small for Redux overhead.'
Step 2: MemoryLayer captures this, refines it, saves it to memory.
Step 3: Developer opens Claude Code the next day for the first time this session.
Step 4: Developer asks Claude Code — 'Should I use Redux or Zustand for this new
feature?'
Step 5: Claude Code responds — 'Based on your project context, you are already using
Zustand and decided against Redux due to the app size. I would continue with Zustand
here.'
The developer never told Claude Code about Zustand. They never told it about the Redux
decision. They told Cursor — and MemoryLayer carried that knowledge forward automatically.
This is the moment that makes people pull out their credit card. Build everything around making
this moment work perfectly.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 6 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
5. Target Market & Users
Primary User — The Multi-Tool Developer
Any developer who uses two or more AI tools in their workflow. This is already the majority of
professional developers and the number grows every month.
Segment Size Why They Pay
Freelance developers Large, growing Time is money, context costs
hours
Startup developers Medium Speed matters, small teams
wear many hats
Enterprise developers Large budgets Onboarding cost, knowledge
preservation
Open source Niche but vocal Complex codebases, many
maintainers contributors
AI-native developers Fast growing Power users, early adopters,
influencers
Secondary User — The Developer Team
Teams where multiple developers work on the same codebase. Shared project memory means
every developer on the team has the same context regardless of how long they have been on
the project. This is the enterprise play and where the highest revenue per account lives.
Not Our User Right Now
Non-developers, mobile-only users, and developers who use only one AI tool. These are not
early adopters. Do not try to serve them in version one.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 7 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
6. Product Architecture
MemoryLayer is built as a core platform with multiple integration adapters. The core is owned
entirely by MemoryLayer. The adapters connect the core to the outside world. This architecture
means new integrations can be added without touching the core, and the core becomes more
valuable over time independently of which integrations are popular.
Architecture Overview
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ MEMORYLAYER CORE PLATFORM │
│ │
│ Memory Capture Engine │
│ AI Refinement Layer (Claude Haiku) │
│ Vector Storage (Supabase pgvector) │
│ Smart Retrieval Engine │
│ User Auth + Billing │
│ Web Dashboard │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
|
┌──────────────────┼──────────────────┐
↓ ↓ ↓
┌──────────┐ ┌──────────┐ ┌──────────┐
│ MCP │ │ Chrome │ │ File │
│ Adapter │ │Extension │ │ Sync │
└──────────┘ └──────────┘ └──────────┘
Cursor ChatGPT .cursorrules
Claude Code Gemini CLAUDE.md
Windsurf Claude.ai Any tool
Core Components
Component Responsibility
Memory Capture Engine Reads raw conversations from all connected tools
AI Refinement Layer Converts raw text to structured JSON memory via Claude Haiku
Vector Storage Stores memories as vectors for semantic search
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 8 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
Smart Retrieval Engine Selects the right memories for each new context
Integration Adapters MCP, Chrome Extension, File Sync — connect core to tools
Web Dashboard User interface to view, edit, and manage memories
Auth + Billing Supabase Auth, Stripe for payments
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 9 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
7. How Memory Works — Capture, Refine, Retrieve
Step 1 — Capture
Raw conversation text is captured from AI tools via the appropriate adapter. The capture trigger
fires when a meaningful session ends, not after every single message. This reduces API cost by
60 to 70 percent.
Step 2 — Refine
The raw conversation is sent to the Claude Haiku API with a structured extraction prompt. The
model returns clean JSON memory objects. The refinement layer merges new memories with
existing ones, removes duplicates, resolves conflicts, and assigns importance scores.
// Example refinement prompt
Extract key memories from this developer conversation.
Return JSON with these categories:
- stack: tech decisions and versions
- architecture: structural decisions and reasons
- preferences: coding style and patterns
- tasks: current work and next steps
Merge with existing memories. Remove duplicates.
Flag conflicts with timestamps.
Step 3 — Store
Each memory object is converted to a vector embedding and stored in Supabase pgvector
alongside the structured JSON. Metadata includes category, importance score, creation date,
last used date, and use count.
Step 4 — Retrieve
When a new session opens, the retrieval engine takes the initial context (file opened, first
message typed, tool being used) and runs a semantic vector search. The top results are filtered
by importance score. The final set is compressed into a clean 200 to 300 word summary and
injected silently into the session.
Memory Lifecycle
Stage Trigger Action
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 10 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
New memory Session ends with new information Extract, refine, store with high
importance
Memory update Existing fact changes Update with timestamp, keep
history
Memory merge Duplicate detected Combine into single clean
memory
Memory archive Importance score drops below Move to cold storage, still
threshold searchable
Memory compression Category exceeds 50 items AI compresses into fewer
richer memories
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 11 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
8. Storage Architecture
MemoryLayer uses a two-layer storage approach. Structured relational data lives in Supabase
Postgres. Semantic memory vectors live in Supabase pgvector. Both are in the same Supabase
project — one service, one bill, one connection.
Memory Tier System
Tier Contents Always Injected
Hot Memory Core project facts, stack, structure — Yes, always
small, always relevant
Warm Memory Recent decisions, current tasks, active If semantically relevant
context
Cold Memory Old decisions, resolved issues, Only if explicitly matched
archived context
Memory Data Structure
{
"id": "mem_abc123",
"project_id": "proj_456",
"user_id": "user_789",
"content": "Using Supabase Auth with JWT tokens",
"category": "architecture",
"importance_score": 0.92,
"vector": [0.231, 0.847, ...1536 floats],
"created_at": "2025-03-01T10:00:00Z",
"last_used": "2025-03-20T14:30:00Z",
"use_count": 14,
"source": "cursor_session",
"tier": "warm"
}
Handling Memory Growth
A developer using MemoryLayer daily will accumulate hundreds then thousands of memories
over time. The system handles this through automatic compression, tiering, and semantic
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 12 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
search so the user always gets the most relevant context regardless of how much total memory
exists. The database grows but the quality of injected context stays consistently high.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 13 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
9. Smart Retrieval System
Injecting all memories into every session is impossible and counterproductive. Context windows
have limits and irrelevant context adds noise. The smart retrieval system ensures only the most
relevant memories reach each session.
Three-Layer Filtering
Layer Method Reduces Pool By
Layer 1 — Semantic Vector similarity against current Filters to top 20 of all
Search context memories
Layer 2 — Importance Weighted score of recency, frequency, Filters to top 8-10 of 20
Score manual flags
Layer 3 — AI AI summarizes final set into clean Compresses 8-10 into 200-
Compression paragraph 300 words
Importance Score Formula
Importance Score =
(use_count / max_use_count) * 0.30
+ (days_since_used inverse) * 0.30
+ (relevance_hit_rate) * 0.20
+ (manually_pinned ? 1 : 0) * 0.20
Score range: 0.0 to 1.0
Archive threshold: below 0.15 for 30+ days
Context-Aware Injection
The retrieval system looks at more than just what the user typed. It considers which file is open,
which tool is being used, the time of day, and recent session patterns. A developer opening an
auth-related file gets auth-related memories surfaced even before they type anything.
What Never Gets Injected
Memories from unrelated projects, memories archived more than 90 days ago without recent
use, memories the user has manually marked as inactive, and any memory with an importance
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 14 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
score below the threshold. The system is conservative — a missed relevant memory is better
than an injected irrelevant one.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 15 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
10. Platform Integrations
MemoryLayer connects to AI tools via three adapters. Each adapter connects to the same core.
Adding a new platform means writing a new adapter, not touching the core system.
Adapter 1 — MCP Protocol (Primary)
Model Context Protocol is the emerging standard for AI tool integrations. MemoryLayer exposes
an MCP server that any MCP-compatible tool can connect to. The developer adds
MemoryLayer to their tool's MCP config once and it works automatically from that point forward.
MCP Tool Integration Status
Cursor Full support — reads and writes memories
Claude Code Full support — deep integration with CLAUDE.md
Windsurf Full support
Cline Full support
Continue.dev Full support
VS Code (upcoming) Planned — MCP support announced
Adapter 2 — File Sync
For tools that do not yet support MCP, MemoryLayer writes to the standard context files each
tool already reads. This requires no plugin or extension from the user's perspective — it just
appears as if their context files are always up to date.
Tool File Written
Cursor .cursorrules
Claude Code CLAUDE.md
GitHub Copilot .github/copilot-instructions.md
Windsurf .windsurfrules
Aider .aider.conf
Adapter 3 — Chrome Extension
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 16 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
For browser-based AI tools, the Chrome extension injects relevant memories silently before the
first message in each new conversation. The user sees only their own message. The model
receives both the memory context and the message. Works on ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude.ai,
Perplexity, and any browser-based AI chat.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 17 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
11. Privacy & Security
Privacy is not a feature added at the end. It is architecture built in from the first line of code.
Developers work on sensitive codebases, proprietary systems, and client projects. They will not
Your project memory is end-to-end encrypted. We use zero-knowledge architecture —
your data is encrypted before it reaches our servers and we physically cannot read it. You
hold the keys. Delete your account and everything is permanently gone. We have no way
to recover it even if we wanted to.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 19 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
12. Tech Stack
The tech stack is chosen for speed of development, low initial cost, and scalability. Every choice
can be replaced later as the product grows. Avoid over-engineering at the early stage.
Layer Technology Why Cost
Chrome Extension Vanilla JS / React Simple, well Free
documented
MCP Server Node.js + MCP SDK Official SDK, easy to Free
implement
Backend API Node.js + Express Fast to build, familiar Railway ~$5/mo
Database Supabase Postgres Managed, free tier Free to $25/mo
generous
Vector Storage Supabase pgvector Same DB, no extra Included
service
Auth Supabase Auth Built in, handles Included
everything
AI Refinement Claude Haiku API Cheapest capable ~$0.40/user/mo
model
Frontend Dashboard Next.js React, easy deploy to Free
Vercel
Hosting (frontend) Vercel Free tier very Free to $20/mo
generous
Encryption libsodium.js Proven, audited crypto Free
library
Payments Stripe Industry standard 2.9% per transaction
File watching chokidar Node.js file system Free
events
Total Stack Cost at Launch
At zero users the infrastructure cost is essentially zero. Supabase free tier, Vercel free tier,
Railway minimal plan. You only start spending meaningfully when you have revenue to justify it.
This is intentional.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 20 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
13. Build Roadmap
The build is phased so that real users can test the product as early as possible. Do not build the
full system before validating. Each phase has a clear deliverable and a clear question it
answers.
Phase 1 — Core Platform (Weeks 1-2)
Goal: Have a working backend that can store and retrieve memories.
Task Details
Supabase setup Create project, configure Postgres, enable pgvector
User auth Supabase Auth — email/password and GitHub OAuth
Memory schema Create memories table with vector column
Basic API endpoints POST /memory, GET /memory, DELETE /memory
AI refinement function Call Claude Haiku, return structured JSON
Basic dashboard Next.js app — list memories, basic CRUD
Phase 2 — MCP Server (Weeks 3-4)
Goal: Cursor and Claude Code users can connect and use the memory system.
Task Details
MCP server scaffold Node.js server using official MCP SDK
get_memories tool Semantic search, return top relevant memories
save_memory tool Accept raw text, trigger AI refinement, store
get_project_context tool Return full project summary for a given project
Cursor integration test End-to-end test with real Cursor installation
Claude Code integration test End-to-end test with real Claude Code installation
Phase 3 — File Sync (Week 5)
Goal: Any tool that reads .cursorrules or CLAUDE.md gets automatic context.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 21 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
• Build file sync service — watches project directory
• Auto-writes CLAUDE.md and .cursorrules on memory update
• Smart formatting — each file gets the right format for its tool
• Conflict detection — do not overwrite manual edits
Phase 4 — Chrome Extension (Week 6)
Goal: Browser-based AI tools (ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude.ai) get memory injection.
• Chrome extension scaffold — manifest v3
• DOM injection logic per supported platform
• Session end detection — trigger memory capture
• Popup UI — show current memories, connection status
• Platform support: ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude.ai, Perplexity
Phase 5 — Polish and Beta (Week 7-8)
Goal: Ten real developers using the product daily and paying for it.
• Encryption layer — libsodium, encrypt at rest
• Billing integration — Stripe, free and pro tiers
• Onboarding flow — first-run experience, consent, project setup
• Privacy policy and terms of service published
• Beta user recruitment — developer communities, personal network
• Bug fixes from beta feedback
Post-MVP Roadmap
Feature Timeline
Team memory — shared Month 3
project context
Memory analytics dashboard Month 3
Memory history and rollback Month 4
VS Code native extension Month 4
GitHub Copilot integration Month 5
JetBrains plugin Month 5
Enterprise self-hosted option Month 6
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 22 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
Memory templates Month 7
marketplace
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 23 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
14. Business Model & Pricing
MemoryLayer operates on a freemium SaaS model. The free tier is generous enough to
demonstrate real value. The paid tier is priced to be an obvious yes for any professional
developer.
Pricing Tiers
Feature Free Pro ($12/mo) Team ($35/seat/mo)
Active projects 1 Unlimited Unlimited
AI tool connections 2 All supported All supported
Memory 50 500 Unlimited
refinements/mo
Memory storage 100 MB 5 GB 50 GB per team
Shared team No No Yes
memory
Memory No Yes Yes
history/rollback
Priority support No No Yes
Admin controls No No Yes
Self-hosted option No No Enterprise add-on
Revenue Projections
Stage Users Monthly Revenue
Month 3 — Early 50 Pro users $600
Month 6 — Growing 200 Pro + 5 teams (5 seats) $2,400 + $875 = $3,275
Month 9 — Scaling 500 Pro + 20 teams $6,000 + $3,500 = $9,500
Month 12 — Established 1000 Pro + 50 teams $12,000 + $8,750 = $20,750
Why Team Tier is the Focus
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 24 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
A single 5-person team at $35 per seat equals $175 per month. That is the revenue equivalent
of 14 individual Pro users. Enterprise teams of 20 developers equal $700 per month from a
single account. The team tier is where the business becomes truly valuable. Every individual
Pro user is also a potential vector into their team or company.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 25 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
15. Cost Analysis
MemoryLayer has extremely favorable unit economics. The main variable cost is AI API calls for
memory refinement. With the right model selection and batching strategy this cost is kept
minimal.
Cost Per User Per Month
Assumptions:
- 20 coding sessions per month per user
- 1 refinement API call per session (batched)
- ~2000 tokens input + 500 tokens output per call
- Using Claude Haiku (cheapest capable model)
Per session cost:
Input: 2000 tokens * $0.000001 = $0.002
Output: 500 tokens * $0.000005 = $0.0025
Total per session: = ~$0.005
Per user per month: 20 * $0.005 = $0.10
(Worst case with overhead): = ~$0.40
Infrastructure Cost at Scale
Cost Item 100 Users 500 Users 2000 Users
AI API (refinement) $40 $200 $800
Supabase $25 $25 $100
Vercel hosting $20 $20 $40
Railway backend $10 $20 $50
Total monthly cost $95 $265 $990
Revenue (Pro only) $1,200 $6,000 $24,000
Gross margin 92% 96% 96%
Cost Reduction Strategies
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 26 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
• Use Claude Haiku for all refinement — 10x cheaper than full Claude models
• Batch refinements — process at session end, not every message
• Cache unchanged memories — only call AI when something actually changed
• Aggressive free tier limits — 50 refinements per month caps free user cost
• Supabase pgvector — eliminates need for separate vector database service
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 27 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
16. Market Analysis & Competition
The AI developer tools market is large, growing, and fragmented. MemoryLayer sits at the
intersection of productivity tooling and AI infrastructure — both categories with strong market
demand and willingness to pay.
Market Size
Market Segment Estimated Size
Global developer count ~30 million professional developers
AI tool users (developers) ~15 million and growing rapidly
Multi-tool AI users (our TAM) ~5-8 million today, growing fast
Willingness to pay for dev Historically strong — JetBrains, GitHub, etc.
tools
Competitive Landscape
Competitor What They Do Why We Are Different
mem0.ai Developer API for memory — B2B We are user-facing, no code
required to use
Rewind AI Records everything on screen locally We focus on AI context
specifically, not general recall
Continue.dev Open source Copilot alternative They are a tool, we are the
memory layer for all tools
Native platform memory ChatGPT memory, Claude Projects Siloed per platform — we
connect all of them
Manual .cursorrules files Developers writing context files We automate and keep them
manually updated automatically
The Biggest Competitive Threat
The platforms themselves building cross-tool memory. If Anthropic, OpenAI, and Google agreed
on a shared memory standard it would be a serious threat. In practice this is unlikely — these
companies are fierce competitors who benefit from keeping users locked in their ecosystems.
That misalignment is the market gap MemoryLayer fills.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 28 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
Timing Assessment
We are entering at exactly the right moment. Multi-tool AI usage has crossed the threshold
from early adopter to mainstream developer behavior. The pain is acute enough that
people will pay to solve it. The ecosystem is fragmented enough that no single player will
solve it. This window will not stay open indefinitely — move fast.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 29 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
17. Risks & Mitigations
Risk Likelihood Mitigation
AI platforms build native Medium Move fast, build user base,
cross-tool memory become acquisition target
MCP adoption stalls or Low File sync adapter works
forks regardless of MCP adoption
Platform UI changes High Multiple adapters — MCP and
break extension file sync as fallbacks
Privacy breach Low with right architecture Zero knowledge encryption,
regular security audits
API costs spike Medium Haiku model + batching +
unexpectedly caching keeps costs low
Developer adoption is Medium Start with personal network,
slow developer communities
Terms of service Medium MCP and file sync are clean
violation integrations — no scraping
Solo developer High Strict MVP scope, no scope
bandwidth creep until revenue
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 30 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
18. Summary & Next Steps
MemoryLayer is a genuine product opportunity at the right moment. The problem is real, the
solution is technically feasible, the market is ready, and the economics are strong. The path
from idea to paying users is clear and achievable within 8 weeks.
Why This Will Work
• The problem is universally felt by multi-tool AI users — no evangelism needed
• Technical feasibility is high — no novel research required, proven tools throughout
• Economics are excellent — 90%+ gross margin at scale
• The moat builds itself — memory data becomes more valuable over time
• Timing is ideal — multi-tool AI usage just crossed the mainstream threshold
The 8-Week Action Plan
Week Deliverable
Week 1-2 Core platform — Supabase, API, AI refinement, basic dashboard
Week 3-4 MCP server — Cursor and Claude Code working end to end
Week 5 File sync — .cursorrules and CLAUDE.md auto-updated
Week 6 Chrome extension — ChatGPT and Gemini injection working
Week 7 Encryption + billing + privacy policy + onboarding flow
Week 8 Beta launch — 10 paying users, feedback loop running
The Single Most Important Thing
Build the magic moment first. The moment where a developer tells one AI tool something and
another AI tool knows it without being told. Everything else in the product exists to set up and
deliver that moment reliably. When that moment works perfectly and consistently — the product
sells itself.
MemoryLayer
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 31 ---

MemoryLayer — Product & Build Document
Own Your AI Memory. Take It Everywhere.
Confidential — Internal Document Page

--- PAGE 32 ---
